Now to dive into CSS transformations,
I'm back in our project and now I want to transform this badge, this recommended badge we have here.
We can rotate it and so on
and that is exactly what we'll start with.
So back in our code, let's go into the packages folder and there in the packages.css file and
there, we have this package badge class or this class selector.
Now right now, the badge is positioned with position
absolute and top right zero,
it has a margin of 1.2rem.
First of all, let's change that margin to zero so that we have no margin on this element anymore,
it now sits directly in the top right corner.
Now this is no transformation, transformations are applied with a special property, the transform
property.
Now we got a couple of key transformations and that are moving the element, which we of course also can
do with the help of top right and for non-absolute elements, we also can move an element with the margin
for example
but this actually is hardware accelerated
and it keeps the element in the document flow.
Well, not for this element because position absolute but for a normal element it would.
So moving the element with transformations is always a good idea if you really just want to move it
visually.
I want to start with a different transformation though, not with moving the element but with rotating
and for that, let's use rotateZ. I'll dive into the other options later in this module when we dive into 3D
transformations.
So here, we enter a value in degrees, like 45 degrees for example. If we enter this and we save that
file,
let's reload that page.
Now we can see that our badge indeed is rotated by 45 degrees.
Important,
it rotates around the center of the element.
You can change that though, you can change it with the help of the transform origin property,
that's the second important property when it comes to normal 2D transformations.
By default, this is set to center
but you can also set it to a value like left or left top and if you would set it to left top for example, watch
this badge if I reload,
now it actually seems like it just moved down
but what actually happened is this top left corner,
it stayed in its place.
This is the place where the corner also was before we rotated it because now it's rotating around
that corner,
so clockwise around this corner with positive degrees. If we enter negative degrees, it goes in the other
direction.
So this is what's happening now, it's rotating around the top left corner.
You can also enter a value with pixels or rem to simply move the origin into the element; 0, 0 would
be the same as top left by the way
but you can also enter something like 1rem, 1rem to move 1rem to the right and 1rem down from
the top left corner or a percentage value; 50%, 50% would be equal the center which is the
default and therefore doesn't need to be set
but of course you can also specify something like 25%, 50% to move it in 25% and
down 50%, then the origin would be somewhere where the c is probably. Now that is what you can
do,
I'll stick to center here
and you don't need to specify transform origin in this case because that's the default
but for the reference, I'll add it here.
Now with this added, if we reload this, now we're back to the original view where it's just rotated
around the center of the box. Rotating of course
is great but it's in the wrong position,
let's see how we can fix this in the next lecture.